2026 Paid Summer Apprenticeship
with Catalyst Campus Church
Catalyst Campus Church is a multi-generational simple church on mission to reach the nations on our campuses in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
MISSION
To help young adults of all nations encounter and follow Jesus, equip and empower everyone in our community to do the same.
VISION
We want to see young adults of all nations be transformed as they encounter Jesus.
VALUES
Extraordinary Prayer
Deepen faith together through hearing from the Holy Spirit as experiences and scripture are shared.
Respond to how the Holy Spirit is leading in life and ask for breakthroughs around us.
Practice fasting and seeking God regularly.
Extraordinary Generosity
Share bibles, resources, time, and love with others in a way that gives life and makes disciples.
Live simply, intentionally, and with margin to hospitably minister out of abiding in Jesus.
Extraordinary Mission
Live and share the Gospel in cross-cultural and practical ways while seeking His Kingdom.
Follow Jesus while helping others to follow Him in everyday life.
Empowering Community
Be a spiritual family that chooses authenticity in accepting and loving each other.
Trust each other and the Holy Spirit’s leading in and through each person, sharing leadership to help one another lead well.
PURPOSE
The Catalyst Summer Apprenticeship is an opportunity to be discipled and learn how to make disciples through mentorship and engagement in cross cultural ministry among young adults. It encourages spiritual growth toward Jesus by equipping and empowering participants in God’s mission. This could be an opportunity to explore a calling in ministry. There are up to 5 full-time internships available.
SUMMER APPRENTICESHIP OFFER
Duration: May 4, 2026 – August 14, 2026 (40 hour per week for 16 weeks)
A T4A will be issued
Apprenticeship honorarium: $3200 CAD every 4 weeks ($12800 CAD total)
Apprentice will be responsible for declaring this on their income taxes and are responsible for any taxes owing
APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS
Must be enrolled in a post-secondary school for the following school year or a recent graduate (1–2 years out).
Must be a follower of Jesus Christ whose life reflects that.
Can demonstrate flexibility and sensitivity in cross-cultural situations.
Relevant ministry training and experience would be considered an asset.
Will be required to sign the Statement of Faith, the Call to Excellence, and the Statement on Arbitration and Mediation of the Alliance denomination in Canada (https://thealliancecanada.ca/), the denomination Catalyst Campus Church belongs to.
APPRENTICE EXPECTATIONS
Be a part of Catalyst gatherings for the duration of the apprenticeship.
Meet all apprenticeship responsibilities (see below) unless otherwise excused by the director of the apprenticeship.
Be accountable to the director of the Catalyst Apprenticeship.
Work alongside other Catalyst Summer Apprentices and the Catalyst community.
APPRENTICESHIP RESPONSIBILITIES
Formation
Build into and be a part of the Catalyst faith community for the length of the internship.
Attend weekly Sunday Gatherings.
Engage in daily prayer, discernment and scripture reading (individually and in community)
Participate in group equipping:
Information: book studies and Catalyst Equipping Series
Reflection: space to discuss implications
Application: living it out
Practice Christian living in community.
Participate in group learning on major world religions and cultures.
Complete group reading:
Required books: Contagious Disciple Making, Living Sent
Choose two others from: Dirty Glory, Empowering Missional Disciples, Find Your Place, Sentness, Disruptive Witness, Faithful Presence, Life Together, Discipling in a Multicultural World, Crossing Cultures with Jesus
Mentorship
Engage in a mentoring relationship with a Catalyst mentor for personal growth and discipleship.
Participate in weekly one-on-one discipleship sessions.
Set goals (expectations, areas to grow, next steps).
Work through appre