SRA Physics Circular Motion Worksheet
Swinging Ball
A 0.20 kg yo-yo is swung in a horizontal circle on a string of length 1.0 m. It makes 3 revolutions every second.
Find the angular velocity.
Find the linear speed.
Find the tension in the string.
Hamster Racetrack
A 0.15 kg hamster runs around a circular track of radius 0.50 m. If its maximum static friction with the track is 1.2 N, what’s the maximum speed the hamster can run without skidding?
UFO Ride
Aliens strap you (80kg) into a rotating spaceship with radius 2.5 m. The walls press you inward with a normal force of 400 N.
What’s your linear velocity?
What is the centripetal acceleration?
Merry-Go-Splat
A merry-go-round has a radius of 3.0 m. A child of mass 30 kg sits on the edge. If it spins once every 4.0 s:
Find the child’s speed.
Find the centripetal force required.
If the child isn’t holding on, which force actually provides the centripetal force?
Donut on a String
A fresh 0.10 kg donut is tied to a string and swung in a vertical circle of radius 0.75 m.
What minimum speed must it have at the top to avoid falling?
What is the tension in the string at the bottom if the speed there is twice the minimum speed?
Pig on a Carousel
A 50 kg pig sits on a carousel with a 5.0 m radius. The floor is frictionless, so the pig slides unless a rope provides the centripetal force. If the carousel spins at 2.0 rad/s, what tension is in the rope?
Bucket of Water Trick
A bucket of water with mass 2.0 kg is swung in a vertical circle of radius 1.2 m.
What minimum speed at the top keeps the water from falling out?
At the bottom, if the speed is 6.0 m/s, what is the normal force of the bucket on the water?
Pizza Delivery Turn
A pizza delivery scooter (150 kg including driver) goes around a flat circular turn of radius 20 m. If the maximum static friction is 1200 N, what is the maximum safe speed to avoid sliding (and dropping the pizza)?
G. Banana Blender
Bananas are spun in a blender at a radius of 0.10 m. If they experience a centripetal acceleration of 200 m/s², what is their speed and the blender’s angular velocity?
10. Upside-Down Astronaut
In a training ride, an astronaut is spun in a vertical loop of radius 8.0 m.
What is the minimum speed at the top of the loop to avoid falling?
At twice that speed at the bottom, what is the normal force compared to the astronaut’s weight?
11. Challenge: Car on a Curve
A car of mass 1200 kg drives around a circular curve of radius 50 m. The coefficient of static friction between the tires and the road is μs = 0.40. What is the maximum speeds the car can have without slipping.