Bethany Moore, M.Ed.					
Educational Coach
edconsult@fastmail.com					
  
    
About Career Direct: Research and experience show that good career planning includes four primary elements: personality, vocational interests, skills and abilities, and values. The Career Direct® GE Guidance System consists of the online assessment and the Detailed Report with its accompanying Next Steps (including the Action Plan) and Resources. It encourages the utilization of a coach to help the client read the report and learn the synthesis process. It covers all four of the aforementioned areas to provide a good picture of an individual’s design for work. 
Purpose of Coaching
Coaching is a relationship that helps a person grow, gain direction, and achieve goals in one’s academic and personal life. Career Direct offers a unique perspective of one’s God-given make-up and design.  Receiving coaching to process the results of the Career Direct assessment will help the client better understand themselves and thus make better career and work decisions for their future.
Client’s Specific Goals
By completing the Educational Questionnaire, the coach will have a better understanding of the client’s background and some of their goals for the future.  Once the client takes the Career Direct assessment and coaching is completed, the client should be able to make better-informed decisions regarding their future educational and professional endeavors.  
Coach’s Responsibilities   (I, Bethany Moore)
As a Career Direct Coach, I will provide support and direction with your career planning and provide insights into your unique career potential.  I commit to walking with you as together we process the Career Direct assessment results in one to two sessions of coaching after you have taken the assessment.  These coaching sessions will be between three and four hours in total.
I will ask God to help me as we discern together and better understand how your personality, skills, interests, and values form who you are and who you could become.  I will follow up on our coaching sessions and share resources that will help you make decisions about your future in a final email.
Client’s Responsibilities (I, Justin Cassidy)
As a client, I will complete the Educational Questionnaire and Career Direct Assessment during the planned time mentioned.   I will be honest, to the best of my ability, as I answer the questions based on what I know of myself.  I am willing to invest a bit of time between the two sessions for a short amount of homework. I commit to honesty in this coaching relationship because I understand that the degree of honesty with my coach will significantly impact the effectiveness of the coaching and the outcome in this process.  If I am able to, I will have a parent or close friend join me for the sessions to add insight into the process.
Mutual Responsibilities (We, Bethany Moore and  Justin Cassidy)
We commit to work together with respect, discretion and honesty.  
Practical Expectations
 Meeting Frequency:  Preferably, two 1.5 to 2 hr sessions
Commitment:  We are committing to work together in a coaching relationship for these sessions.  And as a student, a parent
Fees & Payments:  The cost of these coaching sessions are $30 in total to cover the cost of the assessment.  I am excited to be able to offer these valuable sessions to you at no monetary cost to you, yet as we partner together in each meeting, let’s strive to follow through in our responsibilities 
Follow-Up:  I will send you a follow-up email with additional information and resources that you can choose to do with as you will.  
Schedule:  We will respect each other’s schedules.  If one of us can’t make a meeting or meet expectations, that one will take the initiative to let the other know and reschedule with as much notice as possible (at least 24 hours).
Our signatures on this agreement indicate full understanding of and agreement with the information outlined above.
Client ___________________