Jamomad Kids time
Main point-
(What is the one thing you want kids to take away from the lesson?)
Memory Verse-
(This verse should state this main point and be written so they can take it home)
Establish your room/space your class and your authority-
(sit in circle, go out quietly, wait till everyone is in proper position facing you, make sure they know the expectations “muin Jon you are not a little boy now you are with the big kids so you need to sit and listen the whole time … Hudson  since you’ve chosen to be in kids time and not with the adults then you need to sit and participate like everyone else. We will have the lesson, then memorize the verse and then there will be  a prize for whoever memorizes the verse best… ..ect)
Review if applicable-
(Last lesson was on baptism: Children of israel slaves to sin to children of God, Ethiopian believed Jesus was the sacrifice for sin, Paul confessed his sin, the crowds believed in jesus and received the Holy spirit)
Opening prayer- 
(Ask an older student or the Assistant to pray for the lesson and for the parent’s lesson)
Lesson-
(The memory verse doesn’t have to be in the lesson it just needs to be the main point of the lesson for example you could tell the story of Peter walking on water, but then have students memorize Isaiah 41:10 Do not fear for I am with you do not be dismayed for I am your God… or  Hebrews 12:2 Les us keep our eyes fixed on Jesus on whom our faith depends..)
Repeated Key phrases:
(Key phrases that reinforce or are the main point that you repeat several times and or have them repeat throughout the lesson. If you were doing the peter on water lesson the phrase might be “ where should you look? Look at Jesus” Who can save? “Only Jesus can save”  Just saying “Jesus” would not be a key phrase.. it has no meaning.)
Interactives/Visuals: 
              (Make sure you have a plan of what these are. Bring them if not available in the room
Everyone learns better when more senses are used.  So think can they do something physical, look at something the represents the lesson, touch something..ect)
(could be skit, props as you are talking, lots of question and answer from students, A funny/memorable demonstration from you..)
Memorize Memory Verse-
(Have plan on how to do this… half of the kids can not read or write yet. Some of the kids do well memorizing on their own, others do better with a helper. This can also help the faster kids slow down because they have to help some one else . Make sure to memorize the verse yourself)
Craft or Game- 
(preferably that reinforce the memory verse or main point, but not necessary)
You are responsible for Safety and well being of each child until parents receive them back at communion. 
Tips for planning a lesson-
Ask some one if your main point makes sense and is biblical. 
Ask some one if your lesson and main point and verse all match together and say the same thing It’s easy to get attached to an idea for a lesson and then realize that it’s not biblical or maybe matching the main point. 
Make sure you read the scripture first before you conclude the meaning. 
Your audience is 3 year olds to 11 year old. Aim to reach the 6 -11 year olds with your message. The littles will glean things along the way. Don’t worry. But you don’t want to loose the olders by babying it down too much. 
Don’t go Abstract stay concrete with your lesson. I.e your not going to talk about theory only practical. You will loose the 6 -8 year olds if you go theoretical. 
Don’t EVER TEACH A LESSON  that teaches not what the passage’s point is. Your lesson might be true.. but find the place in scripture that is ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT THAT.  I.e David and goliath. Many people do a lesson about God helping us to defeat the giants in our life or we shouldn’t be afraid of the buggy man. But that’s not the main points of the Story. The point is illusion to God’s future defeat of Satan, Not standing for defying the name of God, not trusting in your own strength. David