Name: _______________________
Reaction Profiles Worksheet
Match each word from the bank below to the blanks on the two reaction profiles. Each word is only used once. (Just use letters for the blanks)
Answer the following questions about the reaction profile shown to the right on a separate piece of paper. 
What type of chemical reaction is this (synthesis, decomposition, single replacement, double replacement or combustion). 
Is this reaction exothermic or endothermic and would this reaction release heat or absorb heat from its surroundings? Explain why.
A, B, and C represent the average kinetic energies that particles in this reaction could have. At what average kinetic energy would you expect the forward reaction rate to be the fastest? At what energy level would you expect it to be the slowest? Explain why.
Would the forward reaction completely stop at any of the labeled kinetic energy levels (A B or C)? Explain why or why not. 
Based only on energy, would the forward or reverse reaction on this energy profile be favored? Explain why.  
Drawing Reaction Profiles 
Draw reaction profiles for the reactions described below. Activation energies can be estimated based on the descriptions given and do not need to be exact.  
Hydrogen gas reacts with oxygen gas, but only at a noticeable rate when they are ignited by a spark. The reaction creates a fireball (heat) and H2O. 
An instant cold pack is usually made of a sealed packet of ammonium nitrate inside of a larger packet of water. Twisting and popping inner packet allows the ammonium nitrate to escape and dissolves in the water. This causes packet rapidly cold down. This happens if the packet is at room temperature, and barely any heat needs to be added for the change to begin. Note that a substance dissolving in water isn’t usually considered a chemical change, but it can still be described with a reaction profile. 
When a car engine burns fossil fuel at high temperatures, small amounts of NO2 are created from N2 and O2 in the air due to the intense heat and pressure. When released into the environment this NO2 can negatively impact human health leading to nausea, coughing, asthma, lung damage and infertility. NO2 can be decomposed back down into N2 and O2 in a process that absorbs a small amount of energy, however this process is extremely slow unless the NO2 to be heated to 150˚C. 
 Draw the reaction profile for the decomposition of NO2. 
To ensure that minimal amounts of NO2 are released into the environment, cars are equipped with a catalytic converter containing platinum which catalyzes the decomposition of NO2 before it leaves the car’s exhaust pipe. On the same reaction profile, you have drawn for a. show the catalyzed decomposition for NO2.