The White Man's Burden
By Rudyard Kipling, 1899
Take up the White Man's burden—
Send forth the best ye breed—
Go bind your sons to exile
To serve your captives' need;
To wait in heavy harness,
On fluttered folk and wild—
Your new-caught, sullen peoples,
Half-devil and half-child.

Take up the White Man's burden—
In patience to abide,
To veil the threat of terror
And check the show of pride;
By open speech and simple,
An hundred times made plain
To seek another's profit,
And work another's gain.

Take up the White Man's burden—
The savage wars of peace—
Fill full the mouth of Famine
And bid the sickness cease;
And when your goal is nearest
The end for others sought,
Watch sloth and heathen Folly
Bring all your hopes to nought.

Take up the White Man's burden—
No tawdry rule of kings,
But toil of serf and sweeper—
The tale of common things.
The ports ye shall not enter,
The roads ye shall not tread,
Go mark them with your living,
And mark them with your dead.


Take up the White Man's burden—
And reap his old reward:
The blame of those ye better,
The hate of those ye guard—
The cry of hosts ye humour
(Ah, slowly!) toward the light:—
"Why brought he us from bondage,
Our loved Egyptian night?"

Take up the White Man's burden—
Ye dare not stoop to less—
Nor call too loud on Freedom
To cloke your weariness;
By all ye cry or whisper,
By all ye leave or do,
The silent, sullen peoples
Shall weigh your gods and you.

Take up the White Man's burden—
Have done with childish days—
The lightly proferred laurel,
The easy, ungrudged praise.
Comes now, to search your manhood
Through all the thankless years
Cold, edged with dear-bought wisdom,
The judgment of your peers!
Rudyard Kipling was born in Bombay, India, in 1865 to English parents.  He was educated in England and returned to India in 1882 to work as a journalist.  In 1888, Kipling published The Man Who Would Be King.
Possible Meaning Behind the Poem
Kipling wrote "The White Man's Burden" at the same time the Philippine-American War was taking place. In the poem, Kipling seems to be urging U.S. colonists to take an imperialistic approach with the Philippine people and bring the underdeveloped nation up to civilized standards. Many viewed the poem as racist with its sketchy references to the less fortunate as "Your new-caught, sullen peoples, Half-devil and half-child." Others argue that Kipling wrote the poem as a satirical play on imperialism and was not meant to be taken seriously at all. No one has ever determined Kipling's exact reasoning, so the poem remains controversial today.
Structure of the Poem
The poem is composed of seven stanzas that follow a regular rhyme scheme. The pattern shown above repeats itself throughout the poem. Kipling uses descriptive language to paint vivid images for and to evoke emotions within the reader. Kipling's choice of words like "sullen," "exile," and "harness" creates a mood of darkness and oppression. He wanted to stir emotion in his reader.
Obligation of the Rich
“Noblesse Oblige,” a French expression, refers to the obligations of those belonging to the upper, or noble, class. If you have power, wealth, or status, you have a responsibility to people who are less fortunate.
The term “noblesse oblige” was in vogue during the 1800s at the height of imperialism. People frequently and strongly debated the responsibility of stronger nations to help underdeveloped nations. Countries such as Great Britain, France, and Germany used the ideology of noblesse oblige to justify their occupation of other nations. Proponents argued imperialism brought civilization to underdeveloped countries through technology, education, and a vigorous economy.
“I am an anti-imperialist.  I am opposed to having the eagle put its talons on any other land.”  --Mark Twain as quoted in A Pen Warmed Up in Hell
Mark Twain, celebrated American author and contemporary of Rudyard Kipling, publicly opposed imperialism by any nation, including his native United States.
Anti-imperialists,