Chapter Fourteen: The Honest Tradesman
69) Describe how the funeral procession changes from when it is first introduced until the crowd finally disperses. It changes more than once.
70) Explain which character comes back into play in this chapter and where we've seen him  before.
71) Where does Cruncher say he's going at night and what supplies does he take with him?
72)  Describe little Jerry's nightmare/vision when he runs home after following his father.
73)  Based on Jerry's interaction with his wife, how did his evening work go? Explain the proud father moment at the end of the chapter.
Chapter Fifteen: Knitting
74) Explain in detail the story told about the "tall man". Where have we seen him before? How does his fate affect the whole village?
75) Explain the verdict delivered by the Jacquerie and how the action is registered. What is Madame Defarge knitting?
76) Where do the Defarge's take the road-mender at the end of the chapter?  What is his reaction to the event?
Chapter Sixteen: Still Knitting
77) How do the Defarges first find out about Barsad?
78) List the three unsuccessful attempts of Barsad to get information and then his fourth successful attempt.
79) Describe the different reactions of Madame Defarge and Ernest Defarge concerning what they've learned from Barsad.
Chapter Seventeen: One Night
80) What is scheduled to happen the following day from the evening described in this chapter?
81) What does Dr. Manette tell Lucie he watched during his time in prison?
82) Describe the thoughts Dr. Manette had about his daughter while in the bastille.
Chapter Eighteen: Nine Days
83) What does the title of this chapter refer to?
84) What triggers Dr. Manette's condition (it is more than being separate from Lucie)?
85) What does Jarvis do during this chapter?
Chapter Nineteen: An Opinion
86) Explain the context in which Lorry bring up “Blacksmithing” to Dr. Manette.
87) What is the opinion that is referenced in this chapter's title?
88) Explain the act of destruction that Miss Pross and Lorry engage in.
Chapter Twenty: A Plea
89) What does Carton apologize to Darnay for?
90) What is the request that Carton asks of Darnay?
91) What request does Lucie make of Charles in this chapter?
Chapter Twenty-One: Echoing Footsteps
92) Explain the addition and subtraction of the Manette household in this chapter.
93) Explain the extended metaphor Dickens uses for the mob in the streets of San Antoine.
94) Where does Ernest Defarge go inside the Bastille? What does he do there?
95) Describe Madame Defarge’s act of violence in chapter 21.
Chapter Twenty-Two: The Sea Still Rises
96) Who is the Vengeance? What is this character's role in chapter 22?
97) Who is Foulon?  How does his fate mirror his crime?
98)  What are the three spoils of the day which are carried through the streets?
Chapter Twenty-Three: Fire Rises
99) What is the traveler's purpose in coming to the chateau? Who does he talk to when he arrives?
100) Why do the villagers dislike Gabelle? What happens to him in this chapter?
101) What is happening across France at the end of chapter 23?
Chapter Twenty-Four: Drawn to the Loadstone Rock
102) How does Charles receive the letter and what does it say?
103) Explain Stryver's feeling about the new marquis.
104) Identify all the characters who are headed to France and their reasons.
Book the Third: The Track of a Storm
Chapter One: In Secret
105) How and why is Charles taken prisoner?
106) Explain the dialogue between Charles and Ernest Defarge.
107) Where do they take Charles?
Chapter Two: The Grindstone
108) Where does this chapter take place?
109) What is going on outside the window?
110) Describe Dr. Manette's interaction with the mob.
Chapter Three: The Shadow
111) Why does Lorry take the Defarges to Lucie?
112) Describe the conversation between Lucie and Madame Defarge.
113) Why is this chapter called "The Shadow"?
Chapter Four: Calm in Storm
114) Who does the chapter title "Calm in the Storm" describe? How?
115) Describe how